Now that I've told you a ton about config files without actually saying, well, what they're really
doing internally, let's go ahead and create our first config file.
In this first config file, we are going to try to create a pod directly.
So just a pod by itself out of our post service though, just to look back at this diagram over here,
the only part of this thing that I really want to make out of everything we discussed is just one pod.
Like that right there.
That's all they want to have a pod that's running container.
There's not going to be any other service.
There's not going to be any deployment.
Nothing like that.
Just a pod by itself.
So let's figure out how we will do this.
In this video, we're going to write out all the configuration for it, and we'll have a deep discussion
about what every line of this configuration really means.
To get started, we're going to first go back to our terminal.
We will change into our post directory and we are going to rebuild that Docker image.
Now, it's really important that you rebuild this thing because we're going to apply a additional label
to it that's going to help us identify it inside the configuration that we're about to write.
So even though we've built it several times now in the last couple of videos, yeah, we're going to
build it again.
So inside of posts I'm going to run Docker Build.
Dashti and then we'll put down your Docker ID slash posts and then I call in and I'll throw a version
number on there.
So I'll use 00.1.
Don't forget the call in.
I'll then put a space and put in the dot to say I want to build this image out of this current directory
of posts.
And there we go.
So I've now built that image and that's how we can refer to this exact image.
We've got the name of the image or the tag along with the version number right there on the very end.
So now that we've got that put together, let's go back over to our editor.
We're going to write out our configuration file to create a pod using this container or this image.
The back of my editor, I'm going to first create a new directory called Infra.
This is short for infrastructure.
So this is going to contain all the configuration, all the code related to the deployment or management
of all of our different services inside there.
And then going to create a folder called K Eights.
We're going to eventually have several different folders inside of here.
Right now, we're just going to say K AIDS is going to contain all of our Kubernetes configuration files.
Just, you know, k8s is short for Kubernetes.
Inside there, I'll create a new file and we're going to call this thing post YAML.
All right, so inside of here.
Yep.
That's what we're going to write out, all of our configuration.
Now, as I mentioned at the start, this video, we're just going to focus on writing out the configuration
and creating this pod.
Then we'll come back the next video and discuss exactly what all the config is actually doing.
So for right now, we're going to do a little bit of a follow along, write out exactly what I write
out.
So we'll say API version with a capital V.
A colon and then v one.
But in a kind of pod notice that pod has a capital P.
Put in metadata.
Well, then put in a new line.
And on the next slide there has to be one indentation that like so the really two spaces right there.
If you don't have that, then you're not running out valid yaml so make sure you've got exactly two
spaces.
We'll write out name is posts.
Then back at the top level of indentation, we'll put down speck.
We will indent again.
And say containers.
Another new line.
We're going to indent one more level.
We'll put in a dash space name of posts.
Then image will be whatever the image is that you just built 2 seconds ago back at your terminal.
So essentially that right there.
So for me, it will be Stephen Greider slash post colon 001.
Now it's absolutely critical that you have the exact same indentation that I do all the way through.
If you save this in a try to run it, as we're about to do in a second and you get an error, I can
just about guarantee you there is a typo somewhere inside of here.
Okay.
So that's our config file.
We have told Kubernetes that we want to create a pod.
We want its name to be posts.
And inside that pod, we want there to be exactly one container.
The containers name should be posts and we're going to build that container using the image of that
right there.
So now let's figure out how we can use the CTL command line tool to actually make use of this config
file.
Next, we're going to tell Kubernetes to use this config file to create a new object.
But to do so, we're going to go back over to our terminal.
Back at my terminal.
I'm still inside of my post project directory.
I want to change into that K AIDS folder that we just made a second ago.
They'll go up one directory.
I'll change into infra and then k.
And then inside there I should see the post yaml file to tell Kubernetes that we wanted to use this
config file.
We'll write out cube, it'll apply F and then the name of the file, which in this case is post HTML.
Well, go ahead and run that.
And then we should see something like this right here.
If you immediately see an error when you run that command again, I can guarantee you that you've got
a typo somewhere inside this file.
You will only ever see errors coming out of this command if there is a typo.
There's just about no other scenario unless you're not running the Kubernetes cluster at all.
That's the only two scenarios.
Either Kubernetes is not running on your machine, or there's a typo inside the file.
Well, it says that this thing was created, but what does that really mean?
To inspect the state or to figure out exactly what is going on inside of our cluster?
There is a variety of different commands we're going to run with CTL.
In this case, we want to take a look at all the different pods that are running inside of our cluster.
There should be exactly one right now.
So to inspect and get a list of all the different pods that are running inside of here, we can run
Kube CTL.
Yet odds.
And we'll see that there is exactly one pod with the name of posts.
There's one copy of it that is been trying to be executed and one copy is successfully running.
This pod status is running.
It has never been restarted and it was created 50 seconds ago.
So that's it.
That's how we create an object in Kubernetes.
Just about everything else we do with Kubernetes is going to be kind of variations of this config file.
Normally the config files we're going to write out are going to be way longer than what you see right
here, usually closer to, say, 40 lines or so.
But this creates just one simple little object.
We then applied it to Kubernetes and Kubernetes.
Use this config to decide exactly what to do inside the cluster.
Now, there's a lot of configuration, even though it's only a couple of lines that's kind of stuffed
inside of here.
So I want to give you a couple of quick notes about what's going on here and a couple of quick notes
about the Cube CTL command line tool in just a moment.